---
template: BlogPost
path: /welcome-blog
date: 2020-03-24T06:15:50.738Z
title: Welcome to IoTverge
thumbnail: /assets/loRa.jpg
metaDescription: 'IoT, Machine Learning'
---
Welcome IOT Enthusiasts

# Welcome to IOT Verge
It's a dream come true for me to start this blog and share my knowledge. I strongly believe education liberates  mind, when mind is liberated society is liberated. 

We will discuss extensively about  Internet of Things, Machine Learning and ways to make IOT intelligent using ML. The focus will be in both therotical and practical aspects of internet of things and ML. Theoritical soundness is as important as water is for fish. 

### What is IOT?
IOT stands for Internet of Things. Things connected to the Internet. For example imagine your refrigerator, AirConditioner, geaser, garage door, music system, tv etc.. connected to the internet. 

Sometimes IOT can be used for monitoring applications but it can also be programmed to take control actions  either by human input or allow the device to act autonomously.

Initially, devices used for Internet of Things were used only for monitoring application. later on it was augmented with actuator control. Currently autonomus intelligent IOT devices are deployed which requires no human intervention.

### Why do we need IOT?
    Make life simpler!!!
While this statement is just a part of the answer there is more to it than making life simpler,it saves money, time, human resources

 People prefer IOT for differert reasons based upon their need. Few benefits assoicated with using IOT are

1. Better Decision making with Real time data
2. Asset tracking and monitoring
3. Reduce human resource through automation
4. Increased efficiency with cost savings

